[Swedish] Open your eyes.
It's a simple pattern.
A red guiding star.
a five-pointed devil's cross
will show the way.
It is formed of five streets.
The right street...
leads to the place
where the debt will be repaid.
To be honest with you. Agnes.
I'm here as Chairman
of the Standing Committee of Justice.
and I will be voting against the proposal
allowing police to carry firearms
on regular daily duty.
And I will be persuading the center
and the left to do the same.
I have full confidence in the judgment
of both you and the Committee. Eddy.
Yeah. okay? I thought you'd try
and convince me to vote in favor.
Isn't that what police officers want?
- To be armed?
- No.
You should have seen that meeting
with the Narcotic Officers Association.
Yes. it was a fascist association.
and it no longer exists.
No. you know what. to be honest.
it just makes my job a lot easier
if you all voted against the whole thing.
So you don't think you should be armed?
We can blame you politicians
when the public says we don't deliver.
Point out that we're not receiving
the appropriate support.
Yeah.
Funny how the Narcotic Officers
Association disappeared overnight
when the Department of Justice
chose to put their foot down.
Maybe. maybe not.
What do you mean?
Maybe they didn't disappear overnight.
Maybe they disappeared into the night.
That they went underground?
Is that what you mean?
I can imagine some of the most extreme
and dangerous members
won't be stopped that easily.
Mom. phone call for you.
- Møller?
- I'm sorry to disturb you on a Sunday.
We've received something in the mail.
It looks like Lisbeth Barli too
has had her finger severed.
Are you saying that...
Are you saying that we have a...
One of those?
Yep. looks like it.
Okay. I'm coming in.
One more thing. If this is
what we think it is. we need Harry Hole.
Well. he's been fired.
Yes. but he's the only one around here
with experience with anything like that.
- Okay. Get hold of him.
- Yes. great.
I'm working on it.
And now I have...
talked a lot about myself and my stuff.
You really miss her.
I wish I missed Anders like that.
So why are you together?
Because he earns a lot.
No. I...
I don't know.
Maybe I just don't dare to... leave?
Where is he now?
Somewhere in Europe.
He'll be home late tonight.
What is it...
- What is it that he does. exactly?
- He's selling...
accoutrements to churches
and chapels. Crosses...
Altarpieces. pulpits.
Old and new.
So he's Christian?
Nice tits.
Hey...
I just have to apologize
for my boys' behavior over there.
They're a little excited today.
But having said that.
great fucking rack. girl.
No. fuck that. It's fine.
I tried to reach you at work.
I wanted to tell you things about Camilla
that I couldn't say
when you were at our place.
- How so?
- Because Anders was there.
He got so furious every time I said
that Camilla had brought home a new guy.
as if he didn't hear it too.
Why did he get furious?
Well... I guess he thought that I was...
accusing Camilla of being a whore.
But...
my point was only that she...
had a very healthy and good sex life.
So you wanted to reach me to tell me
that Camilla fucked around?
No. it...
It wasn't just that. it was...
Someone called me from a withheld number.
I wouldn't have given it any thought. but...
After what happened to Camilla. I...
Yeah?
Someone was breathing into the microphone
without saying anything.
I got this feeling
that the person doing it was really close.
But...
do you or your partner know Lisbeth Barli?
- That lady singer who's missing?
- Yeah.
Why should we?
No... why should you indeed.
I have to get home.
I can walk you home.
It's just 400 meters.
Yeah...
I think I can manage.
Could I have made you forget Rakel?
Nice ass too. Shit.
What do you want?
What the fuck? Okay...
What the hell... For fuck's sake...
Hey. Where's Hole?
- The drunk?
- He's in cell 129.
The guard will let you in.
Over there?
What the hell is going on?
Had a bit too much fun?
At least one piece
of Lisbeth Barli has turned up.
Came in an envelope.
I'm leading the Barli and Loen cases.
You're the only one who has...
gone after this type of killer before.
But it is up to me.
Yeah. so?
I was just wondering if you'd thought
about what we spoke about earlier.
Yes.
About you wanting to help me.
About us helping each other.
Did you kill Ellen?
Okay.
I will admit this to you. Harry.
I killed Sverre Olsen.
I broke into the cabin.
Put down the gun!
He put down his gun and raised his hands.
Down on your knees.
hands behind your head.
And then. I saw Ellen.
I saw what he'd done to her.
She was...
Ellen...
You saw it yourself.
Ellen.
What the fuck was I supposed to do?
Let him get away with prison?
In this fucking country?
Get a life sentence. out 15 years later?
So I shot him in the gut.
I made sure he fired two shots in the door
so it looked like I acted in self-defense.
Yeah. so you didn't shoot Ellen?
Sverre Olsen shot Ellen.
Do you ever think about what it is that
makes people like us do what we do?
I remember my first memory.
My dad was standing over my bed.
He smelled like tobacco.
Like comfort.
He was a bricklayer. and he always
came home after I'd gone to bed.
I knew that... he'd always be gone
to work before I woke up. so...
if I opened my eyes.
he'd smile at me. ruffle my hair.
and then he'd be on his way.
So I pretended to sleep.
so that he'd stay a little longer.
Was it like that with your dad?
No. my dad was a teacher.
so he was always home.
I had a neighbor across the street.
He was a judge.
He had a huge German Shepherd
who was barking constantly.
It was barking all night.
One morning I was on my way to school.
I stopped outside.
I tried to look him in the eye.
but he just barked at me...
he threw himself at the fence and growled.
So I went up to the gate.
I opened the gate.
It was as if I knew why he was so mad.
But the dog just jumped at me
and bit me everywhere.
and the judge came out
and yelled at the dog so it ran.
And he yelled. "Never enter
my property again. you little brat!"
Not that I'm in a hurry. but is there
a point to this story of yours?
That night I woke up
and it was completely silent.
And then. I heard the front door open.
I heard my dad's footsteps.
He opened the door to my room.
So I closed my eyes.
But I still saw the hammer.
And then I knew.
We would never see that dog ever again.
So I pretended to sleep.
He smelled of tobacco.
Of comfort.
I killed Sverre Olsen.
For Ellen's sake.
For our sake.
For the sake of
the entire fucking society.
So you are...
some sort of death squadron?
No. we're just a few normal men and women
who take our civic responsibility
very seriously.
We do what the police cannot.
And we have a few sponsors
who pay us well to do that.
Very well.
Yeah. and who is that? Who are they?
What kind of choice do you have. Harry?
An alcoholic man over 40.
Who are you indebted to?
The police?
Your bosses? They turn their back
the moment they smell trouble.
Fucking turn-coats.
You know. I can offer you
ten times what you earn at the moment.
But the most important thing
I can offer you is some dignity.
I can see that...
That you don't want to give up.
We're meeting the investigation team
at eight o'clock. That's in three hours.
They won't let me
out of the drunk tank before ten.
I'm sure you can handle that.
Get everyone out!
This way! Out!
After last week's gang shooting.
there have been
several calls to arm the police.
Here at the Debate.
we're going to talk to a caller.
Hello. I don't understand why
the politicians aren't doing anything.
Nothing ever happens in this city.
This is Lisbeth Barli's hand.
and this is the finger
we received in the mail.
According to Lønn. the fingerprint
has multiple matches in Barli's apartment.
Although we are still waiting
for a DNA report.
we will assume that it is Lisbeth Barli.
The police still have
no information to share
about the murder of Camilla Loen
and disappearance of singer Lisbeth Barli.
One of NTB's sources says
that the two cases are connected.
This gemstone was found
under Camilla Loen's eyelid.
As you can see. it has the same shape
as the one on Lisbeth Barli's ring.
And I have been in touch
with a diamond expert at De Beers.
And she believes that spectrometry
and microtomography can be used
to identify exactly
where a diamond originates.
She is flying in from London tonight
to give us a hand.
Excellent work. Beate. Very good.
Do you have any more thoughts
about the case?
No. but isn't it
a bit of a nightmare case?
On the contrary.
No. but come on. we have
to stay positive. I mean. we have...
We have two cases.
but we're looking for one perpetrator.
With two. we have twice as many leads.
and we use twice as many resources.
so this is a dream case. We...
What's your name again?
The alcohol's done that much damage?
There's nobody home in that fog?
Skarre.
I only remember
that you came from Narcotics
less than a year ago.
But there's one thing you could try
to remember. Skarre.
When a detective is facing
a premeditated murder.
he knows that the killer
has quite a few advantages.
He could have hidden technical evidence.
He could have found an acceptable alibi
for the time of the murder.
got rid of the murder weapon and so on.
but there's one thing
that the murderer practically never
manages to hide from the detective.
and what's that. Skarre?
It's the motive.
It's so basic that we sometimes forget it.
Until he one day appears. the killer
from the detective's worst nightmare.
or wet dream. I guess.
depending on the way you're wired.
A killer without a motive.
You've been around the block.
but you're scaremongering.
Without a motive that is easy
to comprehend for normal people.
There could be a simple
and classic motive behind the murders.
Please. he's right.
Of course I'm right.
We can't just sit here...
But Skarre...
Harry is right. of course.
We've been working on these cases
for five and ten days. respectively.
without finding any connections
between the two. Until now.
And when the connection is the method.
a ritual. something
that looks like a code.
you start thinking about a word I suggest
no one says out loud. but keeps in mind.
I also suggest that everyone in here
keeps their mouth shut
and their ears open when Detective Hole
speaks on these matters. Okay?
To summarize. we have two thoughts
in our minds at the same time.
On one hand.
we investigate systematically...
How much do you propose
to pay me for the lessons?
Oh. I know what’s right.
A friend of mine gets French lessons
for 18 pence an hour
from a French gentleman.
You wouldn’t ask me the same
for teaching me my own language.
so I won’t give more than a shilling.
And if you won't accept...
If you won't accept. then forget about it.
- Okay. let's do that again.
- One more time.
Oh. I know what’s right.
It's our first day on stage. it's a lot.
both with light and sound and everything.
Yes. of course.
I won’t give more than a shilling.
If you won't accept...
Do you see how much they look alike?
...leave it! Fuck!
It's not working!
Willy. this dialect is
completely impossible.
No. that's great. It's really good.
Just do it from the top. and then...
It'll be okay. I promise.
Toya is Lisbeth's younger sister.
Okay. let's do that again.
She did backing vocals for Lisbeth's band.
but the National Theater is different.
...for the lessons?
Oh. I know what’s right.
Is there somewhere we can talk?
Yes. absolutely.
Everybody. one moment.
I need to go out to have a conversation.
Petra will take over and take care of you.
I'll be back. this'll be great.
I need to tell you something.
Did you know that I applied
to The Academy of Theatre?
At the audition.
I was standing up on that stage.
doing funny voices
and doing impersonations and...
[Danish] "You'll get your money. Frank.
Yes. right now. No worries."
But I didn't get in. so I applied
to The Academy of Dance instead.
And they didn't have enough men.
so I got in.
Retired by the time I was 40.
then I realized that I had a talent
for making others do... what I couldn't.
We received a letter.
It contained a...
A severed finger.
Setting a scene. Hole. that...
That's what we do.
We think we can decide everything.
then something like this happens.
and you just become completely... helpless.
I'm afraid it's Lisbeth's.
After another week of violent gang fights.
in which automatic weapons
were allegedly used.
the calls to arm the police
are increasing.
The clash has resulted
in both deaths and serious injuries.
Police officers and the union
believe the situation is out of control.
and that the time
for temporary solutions is over.
VG writes that Oslo
is overflowing with weapons.
and Aftenposten believes that
heavily armed gangs are at full war.
Many are now asking how the police
should handle these situations
when. as a general rule.
they are not allowed to be armed at work.
According to NRK's sources.
the Storting's Justice Committee
is considering holding a new hearing
as early as the first session this fall.
According to sources. we may be heading
towards general arming of the police.
ABC DEBT COLLECTORS
ABC Debt Collectors?
Alexia? Thank God you called.
It's confirmed.
this is officially the longest heatwave...
Yes. of course I'll be there.
And you will just happen to
mention it for Peter.
Thank you. Barbara. you're a star.
Talk to me.
Hi. this is Maya Ek from Aftenposten.
Could you confirm if you've combined
the Loen and Barli cases
and that you are now looking
for one perpetrator?
You need to speak
to the Chief of Homicide.
His name is Bjarne Møller.
He won't tell me shit.
No. and what makes you think that I will?
Maybe we could help each other?
I heard that you like drinks.
We could meet over a couple of drinks?
Have a little chat?
Or perhaps just one?
Have a... day.
The usual?
No. not today.
Hi.
What are you doing here?
They said at the station that you'd gone...
gone out. so I thought
you might be coming here.
- Thank you for the record.
- Yeah.
- But...
- I want you to come home to us.
- I don't think your mom wants that.
- No. the thing is. she doesn't know.
That's why you have to come.
You could make her happy.
Please.
Or else you'll never beat me at Tetris.
I'm the one holding the record after all.
Um...
I don't really know what I...
Come on. I'll take you home.
Hey.
- Hey. where have you been?
- Hey.
I didn't have anyone to play with.
so I took the subway into town.
- You can't just disappear like that.
- Sorry.
I'll go play football.
Hey.
Who have you been fighting?
Um...
You tell me.
Oleg said that you're considering
quitting your job?
What do you want. Harry?
What do you want?
Would it have made a difference if I quit?
You can't quit.
- I'm talking about the police.
- I got that.
I could find a job that lets me...
I could have had more time
to be here with you.
Stop.
Just stop.
It's not your job
that's the problem. it's...
It's you.
You are the problem.
Harry.
Wait.
Could we go to The Frogner Baths
the day after tomorrow?
I want to try the ten meter.
You know. with an audience.
Yeah. that's fine by me.
- You have to ask your mother though.
- Yeah.
- Bye.
The time is 4:55 p.m..
and this is the weather report.
Only white wine. no molly.
No. not you either.
Oh God. no. I'm so done with that stuff.
I have to hang up. Bye.
- Hey!
- Hey.
What can I do for you?
I have a meeting with Halle
in a few minutes.
but those five floors did me in a little.
- Yeah.
- Could I please have a glass of water?
- Yes. of course. One moment.
- Thank you.
God!
Sorry. I...
I'm just...
Yeah. I'm a little jumpy today.
But you are
in the ladies' bathroom. though.
POLICE
Fox 20. we're on our way.
- Where is she?
- Straight ahead.
Your colleague is there. that Swedish guy.
I have sold 22 Ceskas to Dearpmis.
so it could be one of those.
At least one in Dearpmis was shot.
He's in the hospital now.
Okay.
What do you want me to do?
SEARCH THE HOSPITAL FOR GUNSHOT WOUND
I can't talk right now.
See you tonight.
Who is she?
Barbara Svendsen.
Receptionist.
Twenty-eight years old.
Shot in the back of the head.
Ceska zbrojovka?
Yes. That silencer is custom-made.
A strange position to be lying in.
Yeah. it seems likely
that the killer moved her
and arranged her body after.
Who found her?
One of the female lawyers.
Any witnesses?
No. There was a visitor in the reception.
asking for a glass of water.
Barbara Svendsen went to get it.
the time was 4:55 p.m..
and she never came back.
She went straight in here?
Yeah. it looks like it.
This is closer than the kitchen.
And...
Do you know if anyone saw her walking
over here from the reception?
No. I don't think so.
Yeah. And what did he say?
What did he do when she never returned?
When he got tired of waiting.
he found the office himself.
Right. so he was familiar with the place?
No. it was his first time here.
He was the last person to see her alive.
as far as we know?
Yeah. looks like it.
And it happened some time
between 4:55 p.m. and 5...
- 5:11 p.m.
- Do you have to do that?
Do you have a problem with it?
Have you ever touched them right...
after they have been killed.
but before they've gone cold?
You can almost feel the energy
leaving them. but...
You can still feel it.
Touch.
I know that you want to touch.
You can feel it. right?
What are you going to do without this job?
You're just as hooked as I am.
There's nothing that could replace this.
You'll drink yourself to death.
You'll kill yourself.
We need an answer.
Fuck.
It's a serial killer?
Yeah. you'll just have to start
cancelling vacations. boss.
We need all hands on deck.
- This couldn't be coming at a worse time.
- Convenient serial murders are rare.
- A woman has been found killed...
- More information will follow.
Hey. listen. Sorry.
- Do you know who did it?
- Can you tell us who the victim is?
Hey. I just wanted to apologize.
I was the one who called you before.
Maya Ek. from Aftenposten.
I feel like a fucking idiot.
Listen. I know a few things
about addiction.
My little brother...
He's a heroin addict.
He's serving time at Kumla in Sweden.
- What I said...
- Are you done?
Yes.
Good.
CARL'S ELECTRICAL AND EQUIPMENT
Just a few minutes ago.
we received a message about
another murder of a young woman in Oslo.
The police are still working in
an office building on Carl Berners Plass.
but are not yet responding
to questions from the press
about a possible connection
to the murder of Camilla Loen.
Relatives have been notified
about today's event.
Witnesses are being questioned.
and a large area has been cordoned off.
Ten days ago.
Camilla Loen was found murdered...
We only sell used stuff.
Just so you know!
Yes. it's the police.
Our reporter has spoken
to Lisbeth Barli's sister...
Have you had any customers today
who have acted a bit strange?
Different? Anything you may have noticed?
Different?
Yeah... everyone! The whole neighborhood
is going down the drain.
Yeah...
For instance someone who looks
like they are about to murder someone.
Yeah... Who the hell hasn't thought
about killing someone from time to time?
The whole world is full of people
who are a waste of skin. so...
No... I haven't had
one fucking customer all day. so...
Thanks.
According to police sources...
We will provide ongoing updates
in this case throughout the evening.
including from
the police press conference at 9 p.m.
SISSEL: I FOUND SOMEONE. CALL ME.
While the rest of the population
is on summer vacation.
the police are under enormous
pressure with serious cases...
Hi. Harry.
What did you find?
I got a hit on Aker Hospital.
They won't give me names. but there is
a person there with gunshot wounds.
and they could be connected
to the Dearpmis gang.
- Room number?
- 505.
Thank you. Sissel.
You can just keep reading
your book for the next ten minutes.
Nice and easy.
Who the fuck are you?
I'm the only thing standing between you
and the fact that your head
will soon be blown to pieces.
POLICE
Hey... you know that gang you guys attacked?
They've told us who incinerated that guy.
And you can be tracked.
as long as you have this.
You're bluffing. If they know
who used the flamethrower.
they'll know that it wasn't me.
They're not the ones who want to kill you.
It's your own.
When we arrest the man
who killed that guy.
my story will be that you ratted him out
when you realized we were suspecting you
and that guard outside your door.
he'll tell your gang
that I walked out of here
with a grin on my face.
What do you want?
I know that you've been
buying lots of weapons.
So what I want is
for you to say "yes" or "no"
to whether this was who you bought from.
Fuck that. We don't snitch.
No. of course not.
Not on one of your own.
Is it this guy?
Yes or no?
Now we're all here.
We've got two new members.
Faceless. nameless
and finally. historyless.
As we all will be swallowed
by time and forgotten.
Three six one.
Remembered for having strived
for this one thing.
making the life of the flock.
of humanity. a little better.
Our leader and I are the only ones here
who know the identities
of everyone in the room.
and I know that some are religious
and some are atheists.
but we all share a conviction
that we ourselves.
as a group and as individuals.
carry a responsibility
to shape and maintain a society.
so that it resembles a fair heaven
more than an anarchistic hell.
We will create a civilization made
for and by the civilized man.
We need to break the weak. useless laws
to be able to implement the strong laws.
You're supposed to sell our drugs.
not steal them!
Those that actually protect
the citizens of our country.
I haven't stolen anything!
And thus. and only thus.
can we help this country
find its way back to what it once was.
You can't pay?
Because we are the strong ones.
I don't have anything!
And with strength...
comes responsibility.
I don't have anything!
You have one day to get that money. okay?
One fucking day!
Huh? You hear me?
- You hear me?
- I'll get it!
No!
Subtitle translation by: Trine Friis